Bedrohungen
1. TCP DoS (Syn-Flooding)
2. ICMP ‘smurf attack’: Denial of Service
3. Viren / Würmer / Trojaner
DNS Cache poisoning
Phishing

interne Bedrohungen:
4. MAC flooding
5. ARP spoofing
6. zusätzlicher DHCP Server eines Users im LAN


Lösungen:

TCP Denial of Service: defence
1.Block SYN packets at the firewall with an ACL (Access Control List) which stops SYN packets from random IP addresses outside a legitimate range. Works well for host not directly exposed to the Internet.
2.But how to deal with Web servers or mail servers directly connected to the Internet? The options are not so clear cut as in the previous case:
! Increase the size of the connection queue on the host (SYN ACK queue).
! Decrease the time-out waiting for the three-ways-handshake.
! SYN cookies.


Defence against DoS (ICMP ‘smurf attack’)
As we already have shown defence against TCP Denial
of Service is hard. Even more virulent is the Distributed
Denial of Service (DDoS) attack that launches DoS from
many hosts simultaneously. Possible cures:
! Aggressively age incomplete TCP connections?
! Use firewall/IDS to detect attack in progress.
! Use relationship with IP service provider to investigate and shut down DoS traffic.
! Smurf: drop most external ICMP traffic at boundary firewall. There are other good reasons to do this: ICMP can be used as tool by hacker to investigate your network…


Defence against Viren,...
-Antivirus Software


Defence against MAC flooding
1.Physically secure the switch. Switches under lock prevent threat of illegitimate use.
2.Switches should fail to a safe state (point 5 Sa-Sc) when flooded, i.e.: disallow all.
! But now new threat: Denial of Service.
3.Use Warpath: it monitors MAC to IP address mappings.
4.Switch with port locking of MAC addresses:
–Prevents ARP spoofing,
–But reduces flexibility (adding new host requires reconfiguration of switch)


Defence against ARP spoofing
-Port Security on Switch


Defence against DHCP
67/UDP (Server oder Relay-Agent)
68/UDP (Client)
ACL's:
--DHCP Client Request an Server zulassen
--DHCP Client Request an VLAN 20, 30 und 40 verhindern
--DHCP Server Response an VLAN 20, 30 und 40 zulassen
--DHCP Server Response an Server verhindern